>> Bianca Gandolfo: I get a lot of
questions about at particular steps of
an interview, why people bomb,
and also a lot of people
don't know why they bombed.
A lot of times you won't
get that feedback, right?
There are a lot of reasons for that,
maybe the recruiter is busy,
maybe it's a liability thing.
So you may not get
the feedback that you want
when you're dropped off
at a particular step.
So let's talk about each step, so the
resume, looking for relevant experience.
Why that might not have gotten through is
maybe you're not highlighting the relevant
experience.
So think about what particular, and
this can be hard if this is your first
software engineering job, to find out
which experiences are the most relevant.
So you can work with a friend or a mentor
to kind of draw out those tidbits.
Say like you worked in a retail job,
maybe you could draw out some
sort of data analytics piece,
and maybe you did some inventory.
Or you could kind of just, even though
that's not what you did all day,
you did do that.
Or maybe you did some sort of
something a little more leadershipy,
where you got an award.
So you just draw those pieces, and
I can highlight your relevant experience.
So if you don't have technical experience,
think about, okay, what do I have in my
experience that is roughly technical or
shows that I am some sort of over achiever
or a leader in some way?
Also grammar, if you have grammar problems
in your resume, that's gonna be an issue.
So the coding challenge,
maybe your code wasn't clean.
Maybe you didn't understand
the problem correctly, so
you solved the wrong problem.
This happens a lot,
where people have assumptions about, so
you see a lot of the same problems,
same challenges, over and over again.
And so you start to form an intuition and
assumption about what they're asking.
However, this can really,
really come back to haunt you when
you just jumped to a conclusion.
You're not actually fully understanding
what the problem is that you're solving,
so you're solving a different problem.
And so that's the correctness, right?
You're solving the wrong problem,
it's incorrect.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So the recruiter
phone screen,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: It's probably
unlikely, if you get
a recruiter phone screen,
it's unlikely that you won't,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: It's unlikely that
you will move forward.
As long as you seem excited and polite
and you have relevant experience
that you can talk about.
So if you don't do those things,
that's probably a reason why you bombed.
Maybe you don't have the relevant
experience needed for a particular role,
and that wasn't clear on your resume.
Maybe you offended your
interviewer on accident.
Things like that can be
a reason that you fail.
But typically, the recruiter phone
screen is just to see if you're nice,
if you have relevant experience.
They're not technical, so
it's not a technical issue,
it's more of a marketing yourself issue.
Similar with the resume,
marketing yourself appropriately.
And then the technical phone screen,
this is where this course and
the future courses and
the last course come in.
And reasons why you bombed is you didn't
know all your basic data structures and
algorithms.
Not that you even really need
them on the job most of the time.
However, it shows that you didn't prepare,
right?
If you didn't study a linked list and
you go into an interview,
they ask you about a linked list.
You can't just say, well we don't
really use linked lists in React or
whatever you may be doing.
It just shows that you're not dedicated,
you're not cramming the night before
with your cracking the coding interview.
Trying to figure out what
a linked list is again.
So maybe they asked you
about a project and
you weren't able to articulate
your contribution on it.
So that's like a flag that you might
be lying on your resume, so be careful.
So any bullet you have on your resume,
make sure that you're able to discuss it.
At least one thing about it,
like a challenge you had, or
an interesting thing, or just the
specifics of how you went about doing it.
Like what libraries you may have used,
and maybe even why would be great.
So similar skills needed for
the onsite interview,
except with more perseverance, right?
So reasons you might have bombed this
one is, maybe you stayed up too late and
you're really tired,
by the end of it you got burnt out.
Again, your data structures in algorithms,
you won't personable,
you didn't communicate well
during your interview.
So maybe you got stuck, and instead of
talking through why you were stuck,
you just stared at the white board and
just blanked.
Instead of communicating, like hm, I was
thinking of going down this route, but
now I'm seeing that maybe we
can't do that because of x, y, z.
So I'm just gonna take a moment and
think about what other options I have.
So this is showing,
this isn't just you just like,
deer in the headlights like this.
Your communicating clearly, it shows
that you're able to collaborate well,
even in a hard time.
It gives your interviewer an opportunity
to give you a hint as well.
So those are some reasons that you bombed
and some skills that you may need.
Kind of my brain dump to you.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, and if you
ever get frustrated, that's a red flag,
so be mindful of your
emotional regulation.
Especially, it's a high pressure
environment, just so you know,
you don't wanna get frustrated.